Hi there, my name is Ari,
and I'm excited to talk about
how to migrate custom intents
to App Intents.
In this video,
I'm going to cover
why you should adopt the new
App Intents framework;
how migrating works, including
backwards compatibility;
and how to actually
convert to App Intents.
First, let's cover why
you should adopt App Intents
and how it's different
from previous frameworks.
We introduced the SiriKit
Intents framework in 2016,
which comes with a set of
purpose-driven system intents
that provide a complete user
experience for common use cases
like messaging, workouts,
phone calls, and more.
Next, we introduced
custom intents
which lets you define your own
intents for any use case,
bringing your app's
functionality to Siri,
shortcuts, and suggestions.
And we added WidgetKit
which uses custom intents
for widget configuration
and prediction.
At WWDC22,
we introduced App Intents,
a new Swift-native framework
to provide intents from your app
to the system.
App Intents is
a great framework to adopt,
because it's modern, powerful,
and easy for users.
It's modern because it's
designed natively for Swift.
Thanks to the latest
language features,
you can write
dramatically less code
to support the same
functionality.
We've also eliminated
the need to maintain
intent-definition files
and use code generation.
And you can now provide snippets
as lightweight SwiftUI views.
It's powerful because
entities and queries
enabled deeper use cases.
You can run App Intents
directly in your app's process
without providing an extension.
And there are new opportunities
for customizing
the user experience when people
set up and run your intents.
It's also easy
for people to use.
Intents can be easily exposed
as App Shortcuts
which are immediately usable
with zero setup required.
Plus, there are new ways
for people to discover
your shortcuts because they'll
be shown at the top of Spotlight
and in Siri tips that you can
include in your app.
To get all the benefits
of the new framework,
you'll need to upgrade any
custom intents that you built
for Siri and shortcuts
to App Intents.
SiriKit intents
are still fully supported.
So if you're building
for Siri domains
like messaging or media,
or if you're using intents
with WidgetKit,
you should leave them as is.
To learn more about
the App Intents framework,
check out our session
from WWDC22,
"Dive into App Intents."
And to learn more
about App Shortcuts,
which makes it super easy
for people to use
your app's functionality
from Siri and Spotlight,
check out "Implement
App Shortcuts with App Intents."
Next, let's cover migration.
With migration, you can convert
your existing intent definitions
to App Intents
with a single click in Xcode.
You can support both iOS 15 and
iOS 16 with the same app binary.
And you can enable
people's existing shortcuts
to continue working
with your new App Intents.
To convert your intent
definitions to App Intents,
all you have to do is navigate
to your intent definition file
and push the
Convert to App Intent button.
Xcode will produce
App Intents code
that is equivalent
to your old intent definition.
Then, you can populate the code
by refactoring your old
content handler code.
We'll talk about this more
in depth in the next section.
In order for people to have
a seamless experience
when your app upgrades
to App Intents,
the system automatically
takes care
of mapping from your old intents
to the new ones.
Let's talk about how that works.
Just by adopting the
CustomIntentMigratedAppIntent
protocol,
the system will have enough
information to know
how to translate between
the old and new intents.
When you adopt this protocol,
you provide the intent class
name property,
which is the class name that was
used for your old custom intent.
In most cases, you shouldn't
have to provide this yourself.
When you use the
Convert to App Intent button,
the resulting code already
adopts this protocol.
Because of the App Intent's
migration capability,
you don't need to wait until
your app targets iOS 16
to upgrade to App Intents.
In fact, you can easily
support both newer
and older operating systems
with the same app binary.
To do this, include both
your legacy intent handlers
and your App Intents
in your app.
To maximize code sharing,
factor both sets
of intent handlers over
a common set of business logic.
Assuming you adopt the
migrated App Intent protocol,
shortcuts will automatically
deduplicate your intents
when you include
both sets in your app.
So on iOS 15 and earlier,
the Shortcuts app will only show
the legacy intent
implementation;
and on iOS 16 and newer,
it will only show
the App Intent's implementation.
Once you switch your minimum
deployment target
to iOS 16 or newer,
you can safely delete
the legacy intent handlers
and definitions
for intents that
you've migrated.
They are no longer necessary.
One thing to think about
when migrating
is that people have
existing shortcuts
that rely on your old intents,
which they might have made
in the Shortcuts app or added
using the Add to Siri button
in your app.
The good news is those shortcuts
will continue working
with your new App Intents
as long as they adopt
the migrated
App Intent protocol.
People's shortcuts
aren't overwritten
to use the new App Intents;
they automatically use
a common format that works for
both the new and old intents.
In order for this to work, the
schemas of the legacy intents
and the App Intents
must be compatible.
In order to be compatible, the
parameters of the custom intent
and the App Intent
must have the same names
and equivalent types.
There are some changes
that you can make
without breaking
schema compatibility.
Specifically, you can add
or remove parameters
or make existing
parameters non-optional.
To check schema
compatibility in Xcode,
check out the old intent
definition file
where there's a list
of parameters.
Each parameter has
a name and a type.
In the inspector pane,
there's also a field
for the intent's class name.
When working on
your App Intents code,
make sure the intent
class name matches
what was in
the intent definition file,
so that the system
can consider the new intent
to be equivalent
to the old intent.
And make sure that
the parameter names
and types in the App Intents
code stay compatible.
Again, the Convert
to App Intents button in Xcode
will automatically ensure
schema compatibility.
So if you use the tool
and don't make any changes,
you'll be in good shape.
Next, let's talk about how
to actually convert
your existing intents
to App Intents.
There are two steps
to migrate an intent.
Step one is to migrate
the intent definition file
and step two is
to migrate your code.
Let's start with
the intent definition.
I'm a big fan of soup,
and we have an example app
called Soup Chef that lets
people place orders for soup.
It has an intent for placing
orders with parameters
for which soup to order and how
many, which toppings to add,
and pickup
or delivery locations.
I'm ready to convert this
to App Intents,
so I'll navigate to the intent
definition file in Xcode
and press the convert button.
Next, I choose
which intents to convert --
just the one in this case.
Then I'll choose where to save
my new intent code
and which target
to include it in.
That could be my app target
or an App Intents extension
target if I've added one.
In this case,
I'll check the app target
and the watch target too.
App Intents cannot be added
to framework targets.
Next, I'll see the App Intents
code that Xcode generated.
It's broken apart across
a few files which represent
all of the intents, enums,
and custom types
that were included
in the intent definition file.
I want to call attention
to a few particular areas
of my old intent definition
that have been migrated.
In the new code,
there's an orderSoup struct
that conforms
to the App Intent protocol.
Note that this structure
is marked as available
in iOS 16 or later.
You'll need to apply
that annotation to all code
that uses
the App Intents framework
if you're deploying your app
earlier than iOS 16.
Each parameter in
my intent definition file,
along with its metadata,
has been migrated
to @Parameter declarations
in the App Intent structure.
All of the Shortcuts app
parameter summaries
have been migrated to this
parameterSummary declaration.
What used to be represented
as parameter relationships
can now be represented
using Switch, Case,
or When statements in
the ParameterSummary.
My Soup and Toppings custom
types are now app entities,
including some to-dos
that I'll need to fill in later.
OrderDetails is now
a transient app entity.
It's considered transient
because it doesn't have
a unique identifier that can be
used to look it up later on.
And my OrderType custom enum
is now an app enum.
The human-readable names
were migrated
to case display representations.
Lastly, all of the dialogs
in the intent response
have been migrated to an
extension on IntentDialog.
These dialogs can be used
for my perform method.
The migrator may generate
more strings than are needed,
so if you see ones
that aren't actually used
in the old intent handler like,
"Just to confirm,
you wanted \ (soup)?,"
feel free to remove them.
Now that we migrated
our intent definition,
let's go ahead and migrate
our intent-handling code.
Note that the autogenerated
App Intent has a placeholder
for the perform() method
with a to-do
noting that it needs
to be filled in.
Let's look at how to do that.
In the old framework,
you provided
an intent definition file and
a set of intent handling code.
In the new framework,
everything is
represented in code.
The parameters in
your old intent definition
have already been
migrated to the new code.
The resolve, confirm, and handle
methods in your old code
will need to be combined
into a single perform method
that gets called
when your intent is run.
And custom types
and dynamic options
will need to be refactored
into entities and queries.
So let's take a look at
how to migrate each phase
of intent handling,
starting with resolve.
In the resolve phase,
your intent handler validates
each parameter of your intent
and prompts the user
for a value if needed.
When migrating resolve methods,
you should take advantage
of App Intents' new automatic
resolution behavior
where possible.
Otherwise you should
refactor your resolution logic
into the perform method.
Let's take a look
at some examples.
Here's our old resolution method
for the soup parameter.
This follows a common pattern
in the old intents framework.
Try to unwrap
the soup parameter.
If it's nil, return a resolution
result asking the user
to pick a soup
using a disambiguation.
If it's set, return a resolution
result with success
and pass back the same soup
that was already specified.
This kind of boilerplate
is no longer necessary
with App Intents
thanks to automatic resolution.
If you have parameters that
were resolved this way before,
here's how to take advantage
of the new functionality.
By default, your migrated
parameters will be optional
but you can get automatic
resolution behavior
by changing the type
to non-optional.
When you make
a parameter non-optional,
App Intents will automatically
ask the user for a value
if it's empty by using
the suggested entities
from the SoupAppEntity's query.
Then, add a dialog into
your parameter declaration
so that the user gets asked
a specific question
when the resolution system
prompts for a value like,
"Which soup do you want?"
Once you do this, you don't need
any resolution code
for this parameter anymore.
For all other types
of resolution,
you should move
your resolve implementation
to the top of your perform()
method and change your API usage
to use the appropriate
new APIs to ask the user
for clarification.
For example, let's say your old
resolve method for quantity
unwraps the quantity and throws
a needsValue if it's missing
and then checks to see
if the quantity is greater
than the number of soups
that are actually available
and returns an error if so.
When we move this code
to App Intents,
we don't need the first
part at all anymore,
because we can separately
just make the quantity
parameter non-optional.
For that second part,
we'll want to take the code
that caused the
completion handler
with an unsupported
resolution result
and replace it with code
that throws an error
indicating that there aren't
enough soups in stock.
We'll need to define
the error as an enum,
conforming to error and the
custom localized string resource
convertible protocols.
That way, we can provide
the dialog that's spoken
or shown to the user
when this case is hit.
If you used to have code that
returned and needsValue result
dynamically like
in this example,
you can replace that with code
that throws a needsValueError.
When you throw
a needsValueError,
the system will prompt the user
for a value with the dialog
you provide and then will run
your perform method again
from the start.
Another option is to use
the requestValue method.
When you use requestValue,
you can prompt the user
for a value and continue
running your perform method
without starting over.
In addition to the
requestValue method,
there are also
requestDisambiguation
and requestConfirmation methods
that you can use
to replace your previous
API usage.
Next let's talk about confirm.
Confirm is an opportunity
to do additional validation
and supply information
for the system to ask the user
to confirm that
they want to proceed.
For validation, you should move
all of the validation logic
that was in your confirm method
to your perform method.
For asking the user
for confirmation,
we have a new simple
requestConfirmation() API.
The new API is just
a single method call.
Using async/await,
this method will wait
until the user confirms
before continuing
with your perform method.
If they cancel,
an error will be thrown,
and execution of
your perform method will stop.
The requestConfirmation method
includes several arguments
that affect the
confirmation prompt,
including the dialog that
is spoken or shown by Siri,
the SwiftUI view
that's shown in the snippet,
the label used for
the confirmation button --
in this case, order --
and the showPrompt argument,
which controls whether or not
the dialog should be shown
onscreen as a prompt.
This should be set to false
when the dialog and view
contain the same information
as each other.
So it makes sense for Siri
to speak the dialogue
but not show it.
Next, let's look at handle.
For refactoring handle,
you can simply move your code
from your handle method
to the perform method.
You should be able to remove
some validation code
from the old handle method
since resolve, confirm,
and handle now happen
all in one single method.
For example, if you copied
your old code from handle,
you'll probably end up with code
for unwrapping parameters
that are no longer optional
which can now be deleted.
At the end of
your perform method,
you should return
an intent result.
The result can include a variety
of fields like the dialogue
for Siri to speak
or a snippet view to show.
Each one requires that you
annotate your perform method's
return type with
the appropriate protocols,
like ProvidesDialog for dialog
and ShowSnippetView
for the SwiftUI snippet view.
Lastly, let's look at migrating
dynamic options.
You'll need to fill in the Query
or DynamicOptionsProvider
depending on the parameter type.
Xcode will provide to-dos
in these places
where you need to fill them in.
For a query, you'll need
to implement methods
for returning entities
by identifier, by string
if it's searchable, and the set
of suggested entities
that will appear when the user
taps that parameter
in Shortcuts.
For dynamic options, you can
just return all of the options
in the results method.
And that's it!
You're finished migrating
to App Intents.
Before you're really done,
there are a few more things
I'd recommend looking at.
The first is to adopt
App Shortcuts.
This will let you make
your intents discoverable
and let people use them just
by saying a few words to Siri.
Add Siri tips into your UI
so people can learn
what to say to Siri to use
your app's functionality.
These should replace any Add
to Siri buttons you had before.
Make sure to test
the customer upgrade path
by creating shortcuts with
the previous version of your app
and testing that
they behave correctly
with the new versions
of your app.
And if your app works
in multiple locales,
think about localization.
In order to localize
your App Intents,
all of the strings included
in your App Intent
should be provided as
localized string resources,
and you can localize them
by providing a corresponding
localizable .strings file
with those strings.
If you use pluralized strings,
you can also use
a .strings dict file.
When localizing App Shortcuts,
add the strings into a file
called AppShortcuts.strings
and replace any variables
in those strings
with $ notation.
To summarize, we'd recommend
upgrading your custom intents
to App Intents to get all
the benefits of iOS 16's
new features and the new simpler
development model
of App Intents.
Make sure to add App Shortcuts
so people can easily discover
and use your app's
functionality.
And to learn more about
how to put together
a great user experience,
check out
the "Design App Shortcuts"
session from WWDC22.
Thank you.